README.md, before:

# What The Python?!

Helping you find answers to the errors Python spits out.

## Installation

You can find the source code on GitHub at: https://github.com/what-the-python/wtpython

To install directly please run:
```
pip install wtpython
```
## Usage

When you are running a python script, you might eventually come across an error like so.

```
$ python example/runs_with_error.py
0
1
2
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/example/runs_with_error.py", line 8, in <module>
    requests.get('badurl')
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/api.py", line 76, in get
    return request('get', url, params=params, **kwargs)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/api.py", line 61, in request
    return session.request(method=method, url=url, **kwargs)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/sessions.py", line 528, in request
    prep = self.prepare_request(req)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/sessions.py", line 456, in prepare_request
    p.prepare(
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/models.py", line 316, in prepare
    self.prepare_url(url, params)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/models.py", line 390, in prepare_url
    raise MissingSchema(error)
requests.exceptions.MissingSchema: Invalid URL 'badurl': No schema supplied. Perhaps you meant http://badurl?
```

In this case, simply replace `python` with `wtpython` and you will see the error message line as well as what installed packages were part of the stack trace.

```
$ wtpython example/runs_with_error.py
```

This will bring up something like below, the color scheme might be different based off how your terminal is setup.

![wtpython TUI](docs/_images/demo.png)

## Development Tools

- [Rich](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a library to create styled text to the terminal. We'll use it for styling and formatting text.
- [Textual](https://github.com/willmcgugan/textual) is a part of rich to further aid in TUI design. We'll use it to create widgets and adjust the change the layout of the TUI.
- [Flit](https://flit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a simple way to develop Python packages. It's pretty lightweight but can do a lot. We'll use it to manage dependencies.
- [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) will run a few tests before you can commit your code. Don't worry, it will make the changes for you. Worst case, you'll have to type the `git add/commit` lines twice.


## Contribution instructions

To setup the system for development please fork the repository and do the below before submitting a pull request.
### Create and activate a virtual environment
```
python -m venv .venv --prompt template
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### Upgrade pip and install flit manually
```
python -m pip install -U pip flit
```

### Install the package using symlinks

Run this command to install the package in your virtual environment. If you add dependencies to `pyproject.toml`, you'll have to run this command again to install the new dependencies. Make sure to pin the version in `pyproject.toml`.


```
flit install -s
```

### Install pre-commit
The `.pre-commit-config.yaml` file is configured to perform the following tasks on each commit:

- Validate yaml files
- Validate toml files
- Ensure a single new line on each file
- Ensure trailing white spaces are removed
- Format your code with black
- Ensure your python imports are sorted consistently

```
pre-commit install
```

## FAQ

1. How do I clear all of the cached results?

You can clear the cache by using the `--clear-cache` param for the query or run delete the `~/.wtpython_cache`.

Commit message:

Added help for use/contribution on Windows

README.md, after:

# What The Python?!

Helping you find answers to the errors Python spits out.

## Installation

You can find the source code on GitHub at: https://github.com/what-the-python/wtpython

To install directly please run:
```
pip install wtpython
```
## Usage

When you are running a python script, you might eventually come across an error like so.

```
$ python example/runs_with_error.py
0
1
2
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/example/runs_with_error.py", line 8, in <module>
    requests.get('badurl')
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/api.py", line 76, in get
    return request('get', url, params=params, **kwargs)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/api.py", line 61, in request
    return session.request(method=method, url=url, **kwargs)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/sessions.py", line 528, in request
    prep = self.prepare_request(req)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/sessions.py", line 456, in prepare_request
    p.prepare(
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/models.py", line 316, in prepare
    self.prepare_url(url, params)
  File "/home/cohan/github/perceptive-porcupines/Perceptive-Porcupines-Code-Jam-8/.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages/requests/models.py", line 390, in prepare_url
    raise MissingSchema(error)
requests.exceptions.MissingSchema: Invalid URL 'badurl': No schema supplied. Perhaps you meant http://badurl?
```

In this case, simply replace `python` with `wtpython` and you will see the error message line as well as what installed packages were part of the stack trace.

```
$ wtpython example/runs_with_error.py
```

This will bring up something like below, the color scheme might be different based off how your terminal is setup.

![wtpython TUI](docs/_images/demo.png)

## Development Tools

- [Rich](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a library to create styled text to the terminal. We'll use it for styling and formatting text.
- [Textual](https://github.com/willmcgugan/textual) is a part of rich to further aid in TUI design. We'll use it to create widgets and adjust the change the layout of the TUI.
- [Flit](https://flit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a simple way to develop Python packages. It's pretty lightweight but can do a lot. We'll use it to manage dependencies.
- [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) will run a few tests before you can commit your code. Don't worry, it will make the changes for you. Worst case, you'll have to type the `git add/commit` lines twice.


## Contribution instructions

To setup the system for development please fork the repository and do the below before submitting a pull request.
### Create and activate a virtual environment
```
python -m venv .venv --prompt template
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### Upgrade pip and install flit manually
```
python -m pip install -U pip flit
```

### Install the package using symlinks

Run this command to install the package in your virtual environment. If you add dependencies to `pyproject.toml`, you'll have to run this command again to install the new dependencies. Make sure to pin the version in `pyproject.toml`.


```
flit install -s
```

### Install pre-commit
The `.pre-commit-config.yaml` file is configured to perform the following tasks on each commit:

- Validate yaml files
- Validate toml files
- Ensure a single new line on each file
- Ensure trailing white spaces are removed
- Format your code with black
- Ensure your python imports are sorted consistently

```
pre-commit install
```
### For Windows Developers
The Textual dependency does not currently work on Windows. You can use WSL to use/develop this on Windows.

1. Install [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) (Windows Subsystem for Linux)
2. VSCode users can remote into WSL with the [Remote - WSL](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-wsl) extension.
3. Once inside WSL:<br>
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install python3-pip
pip3 install virtualenv
sudo apt install python3-venv
```
You may need to update your python version depending on what comes with your Linux distro.
From here you should be able to follow the original contribution instructions. Just use python3 instead of python.

## FAQ

1. How do I clear all of the cached results?

You can clear the cache by using the `--clear-cache` param for the query or run delete the `~/.wtpython_cache`.
